README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ignopeverell/grin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ignopeverell/grin) [![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby.png)](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby)

# Grin

Grin is an in-progress implementation of the MimbleWimble protocol. Many characteristics are still undefined but the following constitutes a first set of choices:

  * Clean and minimal implementation, aiming to stay as such.
  * Follows the MimbleWimble protocol, which provides great anonymity and scaling characteristics.
  * Cuckoo Cycle proof of work (at least to start with).
  * Relatively fast block time (a minute or less, possibly decreasing as networks improve).
  * Fixed block reward, both over time and in blocks (fees are not additive).
  * Transaction fees are based on the number of UTXO created/destroyed and total transaction size.
  * Smooth curve for difficulty adjustments.

To learn more, read our [introduction to MimbleWimble and Grin](doc/intro.md).

## Status

Grin is still an infant, much is left to be done and contributions are welcome (see below). Check our [mailing list archives](https://lists.launchpad.net/mimblewimble/) for the latest status.

## Contributing

Find an area you can help with and do it. Open source is about collaboration and open participation. Try to make your code look like what already exists and submit a pull request. If you're looking for additional ideas, the code includes TODO comments for minor to major improvements. Grep is your friend.

Additional tests are rewarded with an immense amount of positive karma. So is documentation.

Find us:

* Chat: [Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby).
* Mailing list: join the [~MimbleWimble team](https://launchpad.net/~mimblewimble) and subscribe on Launchpad.

## Getting Started

To learn more about the technology, read our [introduction](doc/intro.md).

To build and try out Grin, see the [build docs](doc/build.md).

## Philosophy

Grin likes itself small and easy on the eyes. It wants to be inclusive and welcoming for all walks of life, without judgement. Grin is terribly ambitious, but not at the detriment of others, rather to further us all. It may have strong opinions to stay in line with its objectives, which doesn't mean disrepect of others' ideas.

We believe in pull requests, data and scientific research. We do not believe in unfounded beliefs.

## Credits

Tom Elvis Jedusor for the first formulation of MimbleWimble.

Andrew Poelstra for his related work and improvements.

John Tromp for the Cuckoo Cycle proof of work.

J.K. Rowling for making it despite extraordinary adversity.

## License

Apache License v2.0.

Commit message:

git pre-commit hook to run rustfmt on modified files (#110)
* git pre-commit hook to run rustfmt on modified files
* add docs for rustfmt
* add CONTRIBUTING file

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ignopeverell/grin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ignopeverell/grin) [![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby.png)](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby)

# Grin

Grin is an in-progress implementation of the MimbleWimble protocol. Many characteristics are still undefined but the following constitutes a first set of choices:

  * Clean and minimal implementation, aiming to stay as such.
  * Follows the MimbleWimble protocol, which provides great anonymity and scaling characteristics.
  * Cuckoo Cycle proof of work (at least to start with).
  * Relatively fast block time (a minute or less, possibly decreasing as networks improve).
  * Fixed block reward, both over time and in blocks (fees are not additive).
  * Transaction fees are based on the number of UTXO created/destroyed and total transaction size.
  * Smooth curve for difficulty adjustments.

To learn more, read our [introduction to MimbleWimble and Grin](doc/intro.md).

## Status

Grin is still an infant, much is left to be done and [contributions](CONTRIBUTING.md) are welcome (see below). Check our [mailing list archives](https://lists.launchpad.net/mimblewimble/) for the latest status.

## Contributing

To get involved, read our [contributing docs](CONTRIBUTING.md).

Find us:

* Chat: [Gitter](https://gitter.im/grin_community/Lobby).
* Mailing list: join the [~MimbleWimble team](https://launchpad.net/~mimblewimble) and subscribe on Launchpad.

## Getting Started

To learn more about the technology, read our [introduction](doc/intro.md).

To build and try out Grin, see the [build docs](doc/build.md).

## Philosophy

Grin likes itself small and easy on the eyes. It wants to be inclusive and welcoming for all walks of life, without judgement. Grin is terribly ambitious, but not at the detriment of others, rather to further us all. It may have strong opinions to stay in line with its objectives, which doesn't mean disrepect of others' ideas.

We believe in pull requests, data and scientific research. We do not believe in unfounded beliefs.

## Credits

Tom Elvis Jedusor for the first formulation of MimbleWimble.

Andrew Poelstra for his related work and improvements.

John Tromp for the Cuckoo Cycle proof of work.

J.K. Rowling for making it despite extraordinary adversity.

## License

Apache License v2.0.
