doc/table_of_contents.md, before:

# Documentation structure

*Read this in other languages: [Korean](table_of_contents_KR.md), [简体中文](table_of_contents_ZH-CN.md).*

## Explaining kepler
- [intro](intro.md) - Technical introduction to kepler
- [kepler4bitcoiners](kepler4bitcoiners.md) - Explaining kepler from a bitcoiner's perspective

## Understand the kepler implementation

- [chain_sync](chain/chain_sync.md) - About how Kepler's blockchain is synchronized
- [blocks_and_headers](chain/blocks_and_headers.md) - How Kepler tracks blocks and headers on the chain
- [contract_ideas](contract_ideas.md) - Ideas on how to implement contracts
- [dandelion/dandelion](dandelion/dandelion.md) - About transaction propagation and cut-through. Stemming and fluffing!
- [dandelion/simulation](dandelion/simulation.md) - Dandelion simulation - aggregating transaction without lock_height Stemming and fluffing!
- [internal/pool](internal/pool.md) - Technical explanation of the transaction pool
- [merkle](merkle.md) - Technical explanation of kepler's favorite kind of merkle trees
- [merkle_proof graph](merkle_proof/merkle_proof.png) - Example merkle proof with pruning applied
- [pruning](pruning.md) - Technical explanation of pruning
- [stratum](stratum.md) - Technical explanation of Kepler Stratum RPC protocol
- [transaction UML](https://github.com/keplernetwork/kepler-wallet/blob/master/doc/transaction/basic-transaction-wf.png) - UML of an interactive transaction (aggregating transaction without `lock_height`)

## Build and use

- [api](api/api.md) - Explaining the different APIs in Kepler and how to use them
- [build](build.md) - Explaining how to build and run the Kepler binaries
- [release](release_instruction.md) - Instructions of making a release
- [usage](usage.md) - Explaining how to use kepler in Testnet3
- [wallet](wallet/usage.md) - Explains the wallet design and `kepler wallet` sub-commands

## External (wiki)

- [FAQ](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/FAQ) - Frequently Asked Questions
- [Building kepler](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/Building)
- [How to use kepler](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/How-to-use-kepler)
- [Hacking and contributing](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/Hacking-and-contributing)

Commit message:

[Docs] Rangeproof output documentation (#3234)
* [Docs] Added output byte documentation of the rangeproofs

* [Doc] Adjusted wording on bulletproof byte documentation

doc/table_of_contents.md, after:

# Documentation structure

*Read this in other languages: [Korean](table_of_contents_KR.md), [简体中文](table_of_contents_ZH-CN.md).*

## Explaining kepler
- [intro](intro.md) - Technical introduction to kepler
- [kepler4bitcoiners](kepler4bitcoiners.md) - Explaining kepler from a bitcoiner's perspective

## Understand the kepler implementation

- [chain_sync](chain/chain_sync.md) - About how Kepler's blockchain is synchronized
- [blocks_and_headers](chain/blocks_and_headers.md) - How Kepler tracks blocks and headers on the chain
- [contract_ideas](contract_ideas.md) - Ideas on how to implement contracts
- [dandelion/dandelion](dandelion/dandelion.md) - About transaction propagation and cut-through. Stemming and fluffing!
- [dandelion/simulation](dandelion/simulation.md) - Dandelion simulation - aggregating transaction without lock_height Stemming and fluffing!
- [internal/pool](internal/pool.md) - Technical explanation of the transaction pool
- [merkle](merkle.md) - Technical explanation of kepler's favorite kind of merkle trees
- [merkle_proof graph](merkle_proof/merkle_proof.png) - Example merkle proof with pruning applied
- [pruning](pruning.md) - Technical explanation of pruning
- [stratum](stratum.md) - Technical explanation of Kepler Stratum RPC protocol
- [transaction UML](https://github.com/keplernetwork/kepler-wallet/blob/master/doc/transaction/basic-transaction-wf.png) - UML of an interactive transaction (aggregating transaction without `lock_height`)
- [rangeproof output format](rangeproof_byte_format.md) - Explanation of the byte output of a range proof in a Kepler transaction

## Build and use

- [api](api/api.md) - Explaining the different APIs in Kepler and how to use them
- [build](build.md) - Explaining how to build and run the Kepler binaries
- [release](release_instruction.md) - Instructions of making a release
- [usage](usage.md) - Explaining how to use kepler in Testnet3
- [wallet](wallet/usage.md) - Explains the wallet design and `kepler wallet` sub-commands

## External (wiki)

- [FAQ](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/FAQ) - Frequently Asked Questions
- [Building kepler](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/Building)
- [How to use kepler](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/How-to-use-kepler)
- [Hacking and contributing](https://github.com/keplernetwork/docs/wiki/Hacking-and-contributing)
