doc/wallet.md, before:

# Grin - Basic Wallet

## Wallet Files

A Grin wallet maintains its state in the following files -

```
wallet.seed  # *** passphrase protected seed file (keep this private) ***
wallet.dat   # wallet outputs (both spent and unspent)
wallet.lock  # lock file, prevents multiple processes writing to wallet.dat
```

By default Grin will look for these in the current working directory.

## Basic Wallet Commands

`grin wallet --help` will display usage info about the following. 

### grin wallet init

Before using a wallet a new seed file `wallet.seed` needs to be generated via `grin wallet init` -

```
grin wallet init
Generating wallet seed file at: ./wallet.seed
```

### grin wallet info

Some (very) basic information about current wallet outputs can be displayed with `grin wallet info` -

```
grin wallet -p "password" info
Using wallet seed file at: ./wallet.seed
Outputs -
key_id, height, lock_height, status, spendable?, coinbase?, value
----------------------------------
96805837571719c692b6, 21, 24, Spent, false, true, 50000000000
...
```

### grin wallet listen

(tbd)

### grin wallet send

(tbd)

### grin wallet receive

(tbd)

### grin wallet burn

[tbd]

Commit message:

doc/wallet: replace all [tbd] with some minimal text, partly from `grin help wallet ...` (#391)

doc/wallet.md, after:

# Grin - Basic Wallet

## Wallet Files

A Grin wallet maintains its state in the following files -

```
wallet.seed  # *** passphrase protected seed file (keep this private) ***
wallet.dat   # wallet outputs (both spent and unspent)
wallet.lock  # lock file, prevents multiple processes writing to wallet.dat
```

By default Grin will look for these in the current working directory.

## Basic Wallet Commands

`grin wallet --help` will display usage info about the following.

### grin wallet init

Before using a wallet a new seed file `wallet.seed` needs to be generated via `grin wallet init` -

```
grin wallet init
Generating wallet seed file at: ./wallet.seed
```

### grin wallet info

Some (very) basic information about current wallet outputs can be displayed with `grin wallet info` -

```
grin wallet -p "password" info
Using wallet seed file at: ./wallet.seed
Outputs -
key_id, height, lock_height, status, spendable?, coinbase?, value
----------------------------------
96805837571719c692b6, 21, 24, Spent, false, true, 50000000000
...
```

### grin wallet listen

Starts a listening wallet server. This is needed for the `grin wallet send -d <destination wallet server>` command to work.

### grin wallet send

Builds a transaction to send someone some coins. Creates and outputs a transaction.
- add -d <destination server> to request a destination wallet from the given server address and port, and then push the transaction to the network
- add -s <strategy> to choose between selection strategies. If you're experimenting, or the destination is not reliable, it is currently recommendable to use the strategy `smallest`

### grin wallet receive

Replaced by `listen` (see above). The `receive` command might later be recycled to actively accept one or several specific transactions.

### grin wallet burn

*TESTING ONLY*: Burns the provided amount to a known key. Similar to send but burns an output to allow single-party
transactions.
